Update of changelog template and example (#36)
camaraproject/ReleaseManagement: documentation/CHANGELOG_EXAMPLE.md

> # Changelog QualityOnDemand (example according to release process)

Author: Ok, make sense, I will revert to the original CHANGELOG for  the 0.9.0 and earlier. Many thanks for the thorough review :-) I will go through the rest of your comments shortly

> ## Table of content

Author: Per your above example, I changed from just using "pre-release" and "release" to using "alpha", "release-candidate", "public" and "patch" in the titles.

The hick is that this may apply to only one of / the "main" API in case of multiple APIs in the same repo, so not fully sure it is the right approach. but it gives a bit more information rather then being "too simple" - however I can revert back.

Another option would be to ONLY use the release number in the title, as peple anyway have to look at the details.

Thoughts ?

- **[r2.6 - patch release](#r26---patch-release)**

> - [r2.5 - initial public release](#r25---initial-public-release)

Author: will update per your email comment to use only pre-release and release

> - [r2.5 - initial public release](#r25---initial-public-release)

Author: Done

- [r2.4 - M4 release candidate](#r24---m4-release-candidate)

> - [r2.3 - M3 release candidate](#r23---m3-release-candidate)

Author: ok,  removed

> - [r2.2 - release candidate](#r22---alpha-release)

Author: bug fixed, but this may dissappear following new updates

- [r2.1 - alpha release](#r21---alpha-release)
- [r1.3 - initial public release](#r13---initial-public-release)
- [r1.2 - alpha release](#r12---alpha-release)
- [r1.1 - alpha release](#r11---alpha-release)

**Please be aware that the project will have frequent updates to the main branch. There are no compatibility guarantees associated with code in any branch, including main, until it has been released. For example, changes may be reverted before a release is published. For the best results, use the latest published release.**

The below sections record the changes for each API version in each release as follows:

* for an alpha release, the delta with respect to the previous release
* for the first release candidate, all changes since the last public release
* for subsequent release candidate(s), only the delta to the previous release candidate
* for a public release, the consolidated changes since the previous public release

> # r2.6 - patch release

Author: Has been updated

## Release Notes

* quality-on-demand v0.10.1
* Commonalities v0.2.0
* ICM v0.1.0

> * Backward compatible: yes

Author: Done as suggested.

<!--For each above listed API version that changed, create the following section, replacing the API-na,e and API-version-x.y.z with actual API andme and version-->

> 

Author: Done as suggested

> **This release contains a patch for v0.10.0 of the Quality-On-Demand (QoD) API. Please read also the notes and changes for r1.6**

Author: Done as suggested

- API definition **with inline documentation**:
  - [View it on ReDoc](https://redocly.github.io/redoc/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/v0.10.1/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml&nocors)
  - [View it on Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/v0.10.1/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)

>   - OpenAPI [YAML spec file](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/v0.10.1/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)

Author: all links changed to use release numbers

### Added

* Added configuration for linting ruleset by @rartych in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/270

Other examples

* New property `new_name`
* New endpoint `new_name`
* New test case feature files
* Added examples

### Changed

* Updated the documentation to address the lack of `statusInfo` in `SessionInfo` temporary by @hdamker in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/269
  * Note: The parameter `statusInfo` will be added to `SessionInfo` within next regular release
* Updated the project scope in the README.md by @RandyLevensalor in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/255

Other examples

* Property `old_name` renamed to `new_name`
* Format for property `property` changed to `new_format`

### Fixed

* Fixed maximum duration in session info and improved documentation by @emil-cheung in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/277
  * Improved the documentation of "Extend the duration of an active session"
  * Improved the datatype "SessionInfo" to remove the maximum limit of duration

Other examples

* Typos fixed
* Reference corrected

### Removed

Examples:

* Deprecated field `old_field`

> * Deprecated endpoint

Author: put back original per above and remove other (not applicable) sub sections: Added, Changed, Removed.

> # r2.5 - initial public release

Author: Done as per above propose (see not yet resolved comment)

## Release Notes

> * quality-on-demand v0.10.0
> * Commonalities v0.2.0
> * ICM v0.1.0
> * Backward compatible wrt v0.9.0 ([r1.3](#r13---initial-public-release)): **no**
> 
> **This release contains the initial public version of the v0.10.0 of the Quality-On-Demand (QoD) API.**
> 
> - **This release contains significant changes compared to r1.5, and is not backward compatible**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This release contains the definition and documentation of
  * quality-on-demand v0.10.0
* The API definition(s) are based on
  * Commonalities v0.2.0
  * Identity and Consent Management 0.1.0

## quality-on-demand v0.10.0

**quality-on-demand v0.10.0 is an initial public version with significant changes compared to the previous initial version v0.9.0 and is not backward compatible** 
```

Hint: API version should be compared with API versions, not API version with releases!

Author: Updated as suggested

  - Within notifications the schema `EventNotification`has been replace by `CloudEvent` in accordance with the updated CAMARA Design Guidelines
  - If within `device` an IPv6 address is used it must be a single IPv6 address (out of the prefix used by the device)
- This release includes changes to be compliant with the [Design Guidelines](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/blob/release-0.2.0/documentation/API-design-guidelines.md#10-security) and other documents in [release v0.2 of CAMARA Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/tree/release-0.2.0)
- This is another inital (v0.x) release and further releases before the first stable major v1.x release might introduce breaking changes (e.g. API changes to align with Commonalities updates)

**Main Changes**

* Aligned event notification with CloudEvent spec which will allow API consumers and implementators to use standard libraries and tools which are available to handle CloudEvents (https://cloudevents.io/)
* Added a new operation `/sessions/{sessionId}/extend` which allows to extend the duration of an active session 

> - API definition **with inline documentation**:
>   - [View it on ReDoc](https://redocly.github.io/redoc/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/v0.10.0/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml&nocors)
>   - [View it on Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/v0.10.0/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)
>   - OpenAPI [YAML spec file](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/v0.10.0/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- API definition **with inline documentation**:
  - [View it on ReDoc](https://redocly.github.io/redoc/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/r1.3/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml&nocors)
  - [View it on Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/r1.3/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)
  - OpenAPI [YAML spec file](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/r1.3/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)
```

> ## Changes for quality-on-demand v0.10.0
> 
> Changes compared to v0.9.0 ([r1.3](#r13---initial-public-release))

Reviewer: Header already above

```suggestion
```

Author: Updated

* Moved "description" out of "allOf" declaration by @maxl2287 in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/205
  * Note: this change shouldn't have an impact for API consumers but is relevant for implementations of the API.
* Single IP addresses in Device model specified with standard formats instead of patterns by @jlurien in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/237
* Moved "basePath" /qod/v0 to "url"-property and introduced "apiroot" in definition of server  @maxl2287 in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/252
* Added statusInfo 'DELETE_REQUESTED' for qosStatus 'UNAVAILABLE' and clarified notification events in documentation by @hdamker in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/258

### Fixed

* NA
  
### Removed

* NA

## New Contributors
* @ravindrapalaskar17 made their first contribution in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/215
* @rartych made their first contribution in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/227

**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/compare/v0.9.0...v0.10.0

> # r2.4 - M4 release candidate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# r1.2 - release candidate
```

Author: Milestones removed

## Release Notes

> * quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.2
> * Commonalities v0.2.0
> * ICM v0.1.0
> * Backward compatible: N/A
> 
> **This release contains the second and final (M4) release-candidate for the v0.10.0 of the Quality-On-Demand (QoD) API**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release contains the definition and documentation of
  * quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.2
* The API definition(s) are based on
  * Commonalities v0.2.0
  * Identity and Consent Management 0.1.0
  
 ## quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.2
```

Author: updated

> **This release contains the second and final (M4) release-candidate for the v0.10.0 of the Quality-On-Demand (QoD) API**

Reviewer: Why not "final" in the CHANGELOG? Because this release candidate will be created weeks before the M4 and at this point of time it can't be know if it will be actually the last one. Even the first release candidate can be the final one if there are no changes necessary between M3 and M4.

Author: removed "final"

> - API definition **with inline documentation**:
>   - [View it on ReDoc](https://redocly.github.io/redoc/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/v0.10.0-rc2/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml&nocors)
>   - [View it on Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/v0.10.0-rc2/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)
>   - OpenAPI [YAML spec file](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/v0.10.0-rc2/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- API definition **with inline documentation**:
  - [View it on ReDoc](https://redocly.github.io/redoc/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/r1.2/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml&nocors)
  - [View it on Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/r1.2/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)
  - OpenAPI [YAML spec file](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/r1.2/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)
```

Author: Done as suggested

> ## Changes for quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.2
> 
> Changes compared to r2.3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Changes for quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.2 compared to v0.10.0-rc.1

```

Author: It is stated in the beginning o comparisons are done - I would not add comparison version in the title in addition

Author: resolved

* Added a new error example for DurationOutOfRangeForQoSProfile by @jlurien in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/259
* Moved "basePath" /qod/v0 to "url"-property and introduced "apiroot" in definition of server  @maxl2287 in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/252
* Added a note to maxDuration parameter within qosProfile schema about the limit of 86400 seconds by @hdamker in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/256
* Added statusInfo 'DELETE_REQUESTED' for qosStatus 'UNAVAILABLE' and clarified notification events in documentation by @hdamker in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/258:
  * notifications will be sent for all changes of QosStatus, even if initiated by the client.
  * what will happen when qosStatus changes from 'AVAILABLE' to 'UNAVAILABLE' due to 'NETWORK_TERMINATED'
 
**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/compare/v0.10.0-rc...v0.10.0-rc2

> # r2.3 - M3 release candidate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# r1.1 - release candidate
```

Author: r1.1 will be for first pre-release of alpha API version - not changed

## Release Notes

> * quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.1
> * Commonalities v0.2.0
> * ICM v0.1.0
> * Backward compatible: N/A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release contains the definition and documentation of
  * quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.1

```

(Here I haven't listed Commonality release as I'm not sure if it already existed)

Author: updated

**This release contains the first (M3) release-candidate for v0.10.0 of the Quality-On-Demand (QoD) API**

> - **This release contains significant changes compared to v0.9.0, and it is not backward compatible**

Reviewer: ## quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.1

** quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.1 is the first release candidate version for v0.10.0 of the Quality-On-Demand (QoD) API. The version contains significant changes compared to v0.9.0 and it is not backward compatible:**

> **This release contains the first (M3) release-candidate for v0.10.0 of the Quality-On-Demand (QoD) API**
> 
> - **This release contains significant changes compared to v0.9.0, and it is not backward compatible**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.1

** quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.1 is the first release candidate version for v0.10.0 of the Quality-On-Demand (QoD) API. The version contains significant changes compared to v0.9.0 and it is not backward compatible:**
```

  - Within notifications the schema `EventNotification`has been replace by `CloudEvent` in accordance with the updated CAMARA Design Guidelines
  - If within `device` an IPv6 address is used it must be a single IPv6 address (out of the prefix used by the device)
- **This is only the pre-release, it should be considered as a draft of the upcoming release v0.10.0**
  - The pre-release is meant for implementors, but it is not recommended to use the API with customers in productive environments.

**Main Changes**

* Aligned event notification with CloudEvent spec which will allow API consumers and implementators to use standard libraries and tools which are available to handle CloudEvents (https://cloudevents.io/)
* Added a new operation `/sessions/{sessionId}/extend` which allows to extend the duration of an active session

> - API definition **with inline documentation**:
>   - [View it on ReDoc](https://redocly.github.io/redoc/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/v0.10.0-rc/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml&nocors)
>   - [View it on Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/v0.10.0-rc/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)
>   - OpenAPI [YAML spec file](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/v0.10.0-rc/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- API definition **with inline documentation**:
  - [View it on ReDoc](https://redocly.github.io/redoc/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/r1.1/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml&nocors)
  - [View it on Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/r1.1/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)
  - OpenAPI [YAML spec file](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/r1.1/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)
```

Author: Updated to r1.3 as the example contains 2 previous pre-releases r1.1 and r1.2 for API versions alpha.1 and alpha.2

> ## Changes for quality-on-demand v0.10.0-rc.1
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed the API version, just keeping the API name, as in case of multiple APIs, there may be one "Changes" section for each API.

* Added global tags element  by @rartych in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/227

### Changed

* Align event notification with CloudEvents spec by @jlurien in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/224
* Moved "description" out of "allOf" declaration by @maxl2287 in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/205
  * Note: this change shouldn't have an impact for API consumers but is relevant for implementations of the API.
* Aligned with changes in https://github.com/camaraproject/Template_Lead_Repository on test definitions by @rartych in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/233
* Single IP addresses in Device model specified with standard formats instead of patterns by @jlurien in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/237

### Fixed

* NA
  
### Removed

* NA

## New Contributors
* @ravindrapalaskar17 made their first contribution in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/215
* @rartych made their first contribution in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/227

**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/compare/v0.9.0...v0.10.0-rc

> # r2.2 - alpha release
> 
> ## Release Notes
> 

Reviewer: From here downwards I propose to just mention that there is the original content

```suggestion
** NOTE: the following releases are done before the introduction of the Release Process: **

# v0.9.0

...

```

Author: Included the Note
